Theory:
Blockchain & Types
Blockchain technology is being used to carry and transfer the transactions or exchange of information through 
a secure network. Blockchain technology and distributed ledger technology is used parallel to the digital 
cryptocurrency to the people. Blockchain is being used for the purpose of private networking and uses too 
where only the restricted network users can get the authorization and acces


1. Public Blockchain is a major type of Blockchain, and that is not only open but also decentralized in 
nature. And in this type of Blockchain technology computer networks are basically accessible to 
anyone interested in transactions. Here based on validation the validated person basically receives the 
transaction rewards and furthermore, two kinds of Proof-of-work and Proof-of-stake models are being 
used. The Public Blockchain is furthermore a non-restrictive and distributed ledger system which is 
doesn‘t seek any kind of permission, and anyone having access can be authorized one to get the data 
or part pf the Blockchain. This kind of Blockchain also gives authorization regarding the current and 
past records verification. Additionally, this is being used for mining and exchanging cryptocurrencies
In this segment most common is Bitcoin and Litecoin blockchains. It is mostly secure upon following strict 
security rules as well as methods. However, upon non-following the security protocols it may be risky. Some 
of the examples of this type of Blockchain are - Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Litecoin
Secure and Safe
Open and Transparent
Lower Transaction per Second
High Energy Consumption


2. Private blockchains
Private Block Chain are restricted and not open, such kind of blockchain also has features of access. This 
blockchain allows permission for the transaction from the support of the system administrator
Private blockchain solutions develop these platforms having the features of the following—
ˆ ˆ Full of privacy,
ˆ ˆ High efficiency,
ˆ ˆ Faster transaction,
ˆ ˆ Better scalability,
ˆ ˆ Faster and speediness.


3. Hybrid Blockchains is a merger of public blockchain as well as private blockchain and it is required in 
better control for achieving higher goals. Hybrid Blockchain deals with centralized and decentralized systems 
and it is not open; however, it has the features of integrity, transparency, as well as security. It has several 
advantages over traditional blockchains as depicted in Fig. 5. In Hybrid Blockchains maximum customization 
is being considered as main benefits with private permission-based system as well as a public permission-less 
system. In this type of blockchain systems users are able in getting access and selected sections and rest can 
be recorded or keeps safe due to the benefits of the records from the ledger. Hybrid Blockchains is flexible 
enough so that users can join easily as private blockchain. This type of blockchain is able in enhancing the 
security and transparency of the blockchain network‘

4. Consortium Blockchain is another type of semi-decentralized type of blockchain, and this type of 
blockchain is able in the organization of managing the blockchain network. This type of blockchain is able in 
doing activities even from a single organization. Here blockchain is able in exchange information or do the 
mining and are being used in the areas such as banks, government organizations, etc. Some of the examples of 
this type of consortium are Energy Web Foundation, R3, etc.

Top blockchain use cases

Smart contracts. The primary function of computer programs called "smart contracts" is to automate the 
execution of contract terms when conditions warrant them

Cybersecurity. Blockchains are highly secure because of their permanency, transparency and distributed 
nature

IoT. Two primary IoT uses of blockchains are in the supply chain sector and for asset tracking and 
inventory management.

Cryptocurrencies. The blockchain concept was originally developed to manage digital currencies such as 
bitcoin. While the two technologies still compete against each other in alternative transactions, they've 
also been separated so blockchains could serve other purposes

5. NFTs. Nonfungible tokens are units of data certified to be unique and not interchangeable. In short, they 
are digital assets